Hii all, here we have another interesting problem, which is paint house problem.
This is, available on leetcode, you can go and try the problem.
But let's solve it here, because the next problem that we are going to do is from code forces.
And that is kind of a follow up problem of this problem.
So let's understand this.
So there are there are row of n houses
So we have.
N equals to three.
Now.
And each house can be painted with one of the three colors red, blue or green.
So let me write colors here.
Let’s say them red, blue or green.
The cost of painting each house with a certain color is different.
You have to paint all the houses such that no two adjacent house have the same color.
So very similar to the house robber problem.
But here we have this.
We have three colors.
We have to paint them.
The cost of painting each house with a certain color is represented by n X 3 cost matrix.
So this is the paint house problem.
It's very simple.
We have only three colors, but there can be a follow up problem with K-colors.
Right.
We'll be solving that later.
Let's firstly think about this the cost of painting each house.
With certain color is represented by a nX3 cost matrix, so here it is very easy
Painting the first with the red color is 14.
Painting the second with the blue painting the first with the blue color is two and painting the first
with the green color, the cost is 11.
Okay.
So for example, costs[0][0], is this, costs[1][2] is this and all this
cool, what we have to find is we have to find the minimum cost to paint all the houses.
Isn't this a very simple and easy problem for you know have to find out a certain.
Basically a certain sequence such that no, to adjacent belongs to the same color.
Right.
So how can we approach this problem?
Though some of you might be thinking a greedy problem.
Why don't I just take the minimum and go on and make the minimum in the next?
You also take the minimum in the next.
Again, take the minimum right.
Of course, in this situation it's giving me a right answer, but this might not always be better for
me.
For example, the first approach can be take the minimum from the first row.
And let's say if 5 was here and 14 was here.
14 here and 5 here.
Then I cannot take the first minimum.
Then I take the second minimum, correct.
And then finally, the last one is 3 so.
In this case, the answer would be f5 + 11 = 16
But just tell me just think about it.
Will this always give me a good answer, this greedy approach?
select the minimum.
if the right minimum is again at the same level, then select the second minimum.
So you need to think about this.
I don't think this will give me a good, cool answer because I can make a case.
Let's make a case for only two houses.
So let's say I have two here.
But in this, let's say I have three.
And the second minimum here is 100 and the third minimum is 500.
And in this case, let's make the second minimum to be five and the third minimum to be 10.
So if I select two here, I cannot select this three
And if I cannot select this 3, then I have to select this 100.
In the greedy approach.
Right.
This 100 plus two will give me 102.
But there could have been a second way, which is select this five and just take this tree.
Right.
So in these cases, only what we have to do is we have to try all the different approaches,
and that's where dynamic programming comes in.
So what I’ll say is, I’ll make a state
And I’ll make a state saying
That.
Okay.
Let me write the state dp(I,j)
is nothing but the minimum cost.
If I paint.
Ith
Uh.
Okay.
Minimum cost of let’s say prefix suffix.
I hope you understood this.
Till now that prefix suffix
Doesn't matter, right?
If I takes
If it takes suffix, that means for the suffix of houses.
Then what's the best answer?
Then it's a top down approach.
Otherwise it's a bottom up approach of taking some prefixes.
The minimum cost of.
Houses.
Let's say till I if.
Um.
Ith house is painted with.
Is Painted.
With jth color.
correct.
So I hope this state is very clear.
It's very easy state.
don't need much explanation here.
Let's start from the 0th.
house, so 0123 houses.
And let me quickly write RGB also.
But what will be the answer if I am considering the 0th house
So basically from edge the prefix is only zero.
If I'm coloring the 0th house with the red color, that means 14 is the minimum cos there is nothing minimum
than that.
And if I'm coloring the 0th house with green color.
That means two is the minimum cost correct.
And if I'm coloring the 0th house with the blue color, then 11 is the minimum.
So there's no change in this.
Now.
Let's think right.
So tell me if I want to color the first house with the.
Red color.
Basically this if I want to color the first house with the red color, that means the previous house
should not have been painted by red.
So what I can say if I want to like paint the first house
with the red color, then what I want is I want the 0th house should be painted in colors except red
right that it can be painted in blue.
That means this is a feasible thing.
And this is another feasible thing.
Basically, these two is what I can take and use the 11.
So what's the minimum in these two?
It is 2 right, so two plus 11 is.
13.
Correct, So let me just write it.
Now if I want to paint the first house in 14.
Sorry, in blue right.
If I want to paint the first house in blue color, that means I cannot use that.
If this 0th house has been painted in blue color, I can use that.
If 0th house is painted in red color or it was painted in green color because after them only
I can now paint the first house in the blue color.
That's a possible sequence.
So here of what I’ll say is I simply say that if I want to find out dp(I,j), I'll simply say, tell
me.
For dp(I,j).
I’ll say it is nothing but a minimum of DP.
I.
Minimum of dp(i-1, j’)
where j’ is not equal to j
Correct.
That means for the for the best answer of all the houses till the ith House, if I want to paint the
Ith house with the red colour.
And tell me what's the best answer for
i-1 houses.
If I have painted the i-1 house with not the red colour, either blue or green.
So just tell me, what is the best answer for i-1
Then it will simply for i-2 and so on
So let me quickly write this.
If I want to proceed with 14, then it is nothing but 14 plus.
And what's the minimum of red and blue?
I can say 11.
And it is 25.
Right.
And the final one is.
5.
That means I will be painting the first house with the green color.
So if I may be painting the first house with the green color, that means five is the cost of painting
it.
And now I can use red or green in this case because I cannot use the 0th house painted by blue.
Right.
So what is the minimum of red and blue?
It is 2.
So it is two plus five, which is nothing but seven.
Now let's move to the next house.
So now I want to find out whether what is the value of dp(2,0)
That means 2nd house now if it is painting with red color, so what is the best answer
for the first house to be painted in either blue color or green color?
So what is the minimum of them?
It is seven.
So seven plus 14 is 21.
So I hope you are seeing where this seven where this 21 came from.
It came from the green color of this 2nd house and that green color of the 2nd house, came from the blue colour
of the first house.
So here you can see this is a connection.
And we all know that we can always trace back.
Right.
And here again, for the green, for the green color, what we can say is the cost is the cost of painting
the green color is 3.
And if I want to paint the 2nd house with the green color, that means I can paint
the first house with either red or blue.
What's the minimum?
It is 7 + 3.
10.
Correct.
And finally, the last one is ten + minimum of 25 and 13, and it is 23.
So now what I've got is I've got the values.
That for the last house if I want to paint the last house with Red and this is the best answer for all
the houses.
If I am painting the last house with red that is 21
If I'm painting the last house with green, then it gives me ten is the best answer and with blue
it gives me 23.
What's the best among all these three?
It is ten.
It means the minimum.
Among all these three options is ten.
So I paint the last house with green, which will eventually come from painting.
The first house with sorry, paint the last house
Okay, I think.
Okay.
I have written this RBG.
It is generally RGB.
Right.
But don't worry.
I hope you understood this.
So I'm just painting the last house in color blue, which is coming from painting the first house in
green and which is coming from painting the 0th house with blue again.
So now you can see it.
No to adjacent houses have the same colours and this can continue for all N.
Then in the next video will quickly code it.
And it's very easy.
If you want to code it yourself, you can try it.
I don't think much explanation is needed Right? Yeah!